THESIS: lonely dissent feels awkward, but you can reframe it to be cool and reap benefits

Recently I was waiting for my plane at an airport lobby with some hundred people around me. Suddenly, a loud alarm activated and a pre-recorded message clearly said "There's been an incident in the building. Please leave the building immediately." Then the alarm continued ringing, and the message played again.

The entire lobby was silent. I stood up. People looked at me. I made my way to the nearest door with an "EXIT" sign, and looked back. Not a single person dtood up from where they were seated. Then the alarm stopped. I think I did the right thing, even though it was a false alarm.

How would you feel if you were me in this situation? Awkward, maybe? Here's the thing - I felt AWESOME.

I think humans feel 

Eliezer's article [lonely dissent](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/CEGnJBHmkcwPTysb7/lonely-dissent) describes it as "coming to school dressed in a clown costume". The lesson is basically "Thinking and acting for yourself feels scary and agonizing to our pack animal brans, but you should grit your teeth and do it anyway to save the world". 

I think this advice doesn't work well for humans. To be a lonely dissender would require a lot of willpower every single time you have to speak up, and it wouldn't work in the long term. Instead, I think you should reframe it and make yourself actively enjoy and even seek out being a lone dissender.

Start with small things. There are lots of little situation where groups of people do something suboptimally just because everyone else does it that way. 

One thing that helped me a lot is to view myself as a character in a book, the character that has to make a bit of a fool out of themselves because they and the reader know something that everyone else doesn't. Be the hero of your own story!

And then at some point you'll realize that you're not just a weirdo, you're a leader. You become the first person to do something, after which everyone else does it too. If the AC is too cold at a lecture, point that out to the professor and look back at people nodding their heads in agreement. 

You could even go further and make it into a game, noticing tiny social bugs and thinking outside the box of unspoken rules. 

This is all fun and games, but the important thing is that you apply it to things that matter. Standing up to authority, taking safety precautions when you're worried about something, 



